For this exercise, we needed to examine data provided by the Best App Ever.
First, we need to upload the data and see what we have to work with.
It is always good practice to examine our data file rows and
column names to make sure we know what data we have to work with.
In this data file, we can see four columns.
Marketing expenses, including salaries of marketing department,
business overhead expenses, running the free app,
total expenses, and new paying customers.
The rows show the months in a year.
This means someone has already done the work of gathering expenses paid out per month.
First, we need to calculate the customer acquisition costs were total expenses.
Recall that CAC equals the total expense of
customer acquisition divided by the number of new customers acquired.
This means we need to add up all the expenses related to recruiting customers.
In this case, that would be marketing and the overhead of
running the free app that users can access before paying.
Then we divide that sum by the number of paying customers.
By using this formula,
we can find the CAC for each month.
The second question asks if there is a month with
marketing methods that seem particularly effective,
or a month that is ineffective.
For an effective month,
we want to look for a month with the lowest customer acquisition cost.
In that month, we got
the most paying customers for the least marketing and overhead effort.
Looks like this is November.
Those marketing methods and channels used in November might
be most efficient because they have the lowest CAC cost.
In contrast, we can see the higher acquisition costs in March.
If the app creator use different marketing channels in that month,
they might want to steer away from those methods in the future,
as it costs more to recruit a paying customer than in any other month of the year.
For the third question,
you were asked to calculate the lifetime value of a customer.
To be able to calculate LTV,
you were provided with the transactions of
five customers who together represent an average customer.
First, get the weekly spending for each user.
This is the sum of all money spent by the user in a week.
Then add up all the weekly spending by each user and divide
it by the total number of users to get the weekly spending of an average user.
This will result in a value of $23.30.
Once you have established the average spending per week per customer at $23.30,
you can go on to calculate basic lifetime value by multiplying
the average customer spending in a given time period
by the average customer lifespan in the same time units.
Make sure the revenue and lifespan numbers use the same time units,
such as week or months.
In the case of the Best App Ever,
the average customer lifespan is in weeks, 12 weeks.
Lifetime value can be calculated by an average customer spending in a week times 12.
For the Best App Ever,
the average lifetime value of a customer is $279.60.
Question Number 4 asks if the creator of
the app is spending too much on CAC to be profitable?
One sure sign of this would be if it costs more to
recruit a user than the user returns in revenue.
Essentially, if CAC is greater than LTV.
We want to compare an LTV of
about $280 with the customer acquisition costs we calculated in step 1.
Since even in March,
our highest CAC month LTV is still greater than the customer acquisition costs of $280.
The data tells us the app creator isn't spending more
getting new customers than it is earning from the average customer.
Of course, we need to know more and have further data about the cost of app maintenance,
the size of the addressable market, et cetera,
to know if the Best App Ever has a solid business plan.
However, we can confidently say
their customer acquisition costs don't cost
more than an average user will return in revenue.